The Project Gutenberg eBook of Cookie 'n' Cracker Cookin', by Jeanette
Hindman Elliott

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Cookie 'n' Cracker Cookin'
       To be "Talked About" Use Cookie 'n' Cracker Cookin'

Author: Jeanette Hindman Elliott
        Alfred Festen

Release Date: March 04, 2021 [eBook #64687]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COOKIE 'N' CRACKER COOKIN' ***




                          TO BE “TALKED ABOUT”
                                  USE




                      _Cookie ’n’ Cracker Cookin’_


  TYPE OF RECIPES                                                  PAGES
      AFTER SCHOOL SNACKS                                             40
      APPETIZERS                                                     2-4
      CAKE FROSTINGS                                               33-35
      CAKES                                                        32-35
      DESSERTS                                                     36-39
      ENTREES                                                       9-14
      PIE CRUSTS                                                   27-32
      PIES                                                         27-31
      SALAD DRESSINGS                                              23-26
      SALADS                                                       23-26
      SNACK TREATS                                            5-8, 23-26
      SOUPS                                                          5-8
      VEGETABLES                                                   15-18
  MISCELLANEOUS
      ART OF ENTERTAINING                                             41
      PRODUCT STORIES                                              19-22
      LIST OF PRODUCTS                                                41
      PREFACE                                                          1
  FOODS PICTURED ON COVER
      Mystery Cheese Ball                                              4
      Vichyssoise                                                      7
      Steaks Continental                                              11
      Oven Fried Chicken                                              13
      Peas & Mushrooms Supreme                                        16
      Caruso Salad                                                    24
      Pecan Pie                                                       29
      Raspberry Parfait Pie                                           30
      Chocolate Christmas Cake                                        35
      Pecan Puffs                                                     39

           Cookie ’N’ Cracker Cookin’ 35c (to cover handling)
         ©1959 Copyright 1959 United Biscuit Company of America




                               _Preface_


COOKIE ’N’ CRACKER COOKIN’ contains recipes that will make you the
“talked about” hostess. Not because the recipes are difficult or
expensive to prepare, they are gourmet masterpieces; but because they
are made of just the right ingredients in exactly the proper amounts for
both eye and appetite appeal. The skillful addition of a dash of
spice—pinch of herbs—artistic garnish—reveals the touch of genius! Be
“talked about”! Use COOKIE ’N’ CRACKER COOKIN’! You don’t have to be an
expert—just follow each recipe carefully!

THE BOWMAN BISCUIT COMPANY, division of United Biscuit Company of
America, under the brand name of _Supreme Bakers_, has served
generations of Westerners. Starting in 1906, with five types of Cookies
’n’ Crackers, the firm has grown to a huge industry, with well over one
thousand persons on its current payroll. This fact is certain proof of
_Supreme Bakers’_ ability to please Western tastes ... and your
assurance of top quality and flavor in the Cookies ’n’ Crackers bearing
the famous four leaf clover label. Enjoy _Supreme_ Cookies ’n’ Crackers
as they come from the box, and use them as ingredients in many recipes
... for good eating, every day!

VARIETY IS THE SPICE OF LIFE—that’s why _Supreme Bakers_ produce such a
wide assortment of products. That’s why they offer such a variety of
recipes in this booklet. And everyone—you, your family and your
friends—will enjoy them!




                         _Tempting Appetizers_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


LONG ISLAND CLAM SPREAD
(_Yield: 12 Party Servings_)

  ½ cup canned clams, minced
  ¼ cup clam juice
  2 3-oz. packages cream cheese
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ⅛ teaspoon Tabasco sauce
  1 teaspoon grated onion
  1 teaspoon paprika
  2 tablespoons minced parsley

Beat together cream cheese and clam juice until smooth. Add all other
ingredients and blend well. Chill and serve in a dip bowl placed on a
snack tray. Arrange TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS around the bowl. It’s a pleasing
surprise to find the crackers served hot—butter, place on cookie sheet
and bake for 7 minutes at 350° F.


GUACAMOLE DUNK
(_Yield: 12 Party Servings_)

  1 ripe avocado
  ½ cup chopped cucumber
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  1 3-oz. package cream cheese
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  Dash of Tabasco sauce
  1 teaspoon paprika

Mash avocado meat and blend in finely chopped cucumber and onion. Add
cheese and seasoning; beat until smooth and fluffy. This can be piled
into cucumber boats for attractive serving. Bank boats with SALTINE
CRACKERS, TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS and CLUB CRACKERS. To make cucumber boats,
cut in half lengthwise; scoop out meat; chop and use in this recipe.


SHRIMP CANAPES
(_Yield: 12 Party Servings_)

  1 pound cooked shrimp
  ¼ cup minced scallions or onions
  4 tablespoons mayonnaise
  2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
  ½ teaspoon paprika
  ½ cup Parmesan cheese

Chop or grind shrimp and blend in scallions, mayonnaise, eggs and
seasoning. Heap on TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS and sprinkle with cheese. Broil 5
minutes at 350° F. or until delicately browned.


CHEESE AND ANCHOVY RAREBIT
(_Yield: 18 Party Servings_)

  3 cups grated sharp Cheddar or Swiss cheese
  2 tablespoons melted butter
  2 teaspoons salt
  2 teaspoons dry mustard
  1 teaspoon paprika
  2 cups medium white sauce or
  1 cup dry white wine or
  1 cup beer
  ½ cup chopped anchovy filets

Put cheese and seasoning in top of double boiler or chafing dish; add
butter. Stir constantly until melted, then blend in slowly one of the
three liquids suggested. When mixture is smooth (about 10 minutes) fold
in anchovy filets. Sprinkle top with chopped chives. Keep hot during
serving in chafing dish or over candle warmer. Have plenty of SALTINE
CRACKERS, TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS and CLUB CRACKERS nearby for dunking in
this tasty rarebit.

SERVING APPETITE TEASERS in the living room before dinner is becoming
increasingly popular. Variety in CRACKERS, and their crispness and
freshness, add so much to the tastiness of spreads. Today delicious
prepared spreads are available at food stores. Wise homemakers keep an
assortment on the pantry shelf.


MYSTERY CHEESE BALL
(_Yield: 50 Party Servings_)

  5 5-oz. jars Blue cheese
  1 5-oz. jar sharp Cheddar cheese
  1 tablespoon grated onion
  2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
  1 cup finely chopped nuts

For easier blending allow cheeses to stand at room temperature at least
2 hours. Put all ingredients, except nuts, into a bowl and mix until
smooth and velvety. Electric mixer will make it easier but can be done
by hand. Refrigerate in well greased small bowl until firm. Remove from
bowl; shape into ball; roll in nuts. Place on chop plate; bank CLUB
CRACKERS and TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS all around.

TIPS ON TEASERS will make you a “talked about hostess.” Tasty hors
d’oeuvres include TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS, CLUB CRACKERS and SALTINE
CRACKERS spread with ham, chicken, tuna or egg salad. Crackers topped
with cheese and anchovies, miniature hamburgers, franks or sausages can
be served hot from the broiler.

A tray of radishes, pickles, olives, celery hearts and carrot sticks; an
arrangement of apple and pear wedges, glazed grapes and banana chunks
dipped in sour cream and rolled in colored cocoanut will enhance the
beauty of the buffet table. A crystal bowl of punch could be placed at
one end of the table and a silver tea service, for those who want
coffee, at the other. Prepare ahead; add finishing touches just before
guests arrive—then you’ll have fun at your own party!

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                             _Savory Soups_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


CREOLE BEAN CHOWDER
(_Yield: 8 Servings_)

  1 lb. dry red beans
  8 cups water
  1 cup grated carrots
  1 cup finely chopped onion
  1 #2 can tomato puree
  2 teaspoons sugar
  4 whole cloves
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  3 cups water
  1 #2 can okra
  1 cup finely chopped celery
  1 tablespoon salt
  4 tablespoons vinegar
  ½ teaspoon Tabasco sauce
  ½ cup margarine
  ½ teaspoon chili powder

Wash beans well. Place in large utensil with lid. Cover with the 8 cups
water; soak overnight. Cook, covered, until tender (about 3 hours).
Drain and save liquid. Then run beans through ricer or Foley mill.
Return to liquid and add all other ingredients. Cover and simmer for one
hour. If desired, 5 minutes before serving add 3 franks sliced very thin
and diagonally. Serve with Parmesan Wafers (see recipe below).


MENU SUGGESTION:

To prepare Parmesan Wafers, mix together ¼ cup Parmesan cheese, ½
teaspoon garlic salt and just enough soft butter to spread. Cover TOWN
HOUSE CRACKERS with a generous amount of this spread and place on a
cookie sheet. Broil until bubbly and well browned (about 6 minutes at
350° F.). Serve piping hot. Creole Bean Chowder is so delicious and
filling, that it can be used for the main dish of the meal, if
complemented by a salad and dessert. Try serving it with creamy cole
slaw and delicious Pecan Pie (page 29).


POTATO POTAGE
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  2 cups diced potato
  1 teaspoon salt
  1½ cups boiling water
  6 strips bacon, cut fine
  ½ cup chopped onion
  1 cup milk or cream
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  ½ teaspoon paprika

Cook potatoes in salted boiling water until tender. Fry bacon until
crisp; remove from fat; then saute onion until yellow. If possible, use
green onions including tops. Mash potatoes, reserving liquid. Combine
potatoes, liquid, onion, bacon, cream and seasoning; let simmer 10
minutes. Serve with SALTINE CRACKERS spread with onion butter, sprinkled
with paprika and broiled 5 minutes at 350° F. A salad made of two parts
shredded red cabbage and one part shredded carrot, a bit of green pepper
and mayonnaise is a perfect accompaniment for POTATO POTAGE. Top it all
off with Ginger Spice Cake piled high with Apple Frostie (page 34) and
you’ll have a delicious Sunday night supper!

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

THERE’S A DIFFERENCE IN SOUPS, when they are made with loving care and
caressed by the touch of genius. Really good soups demand time for
preparation and skill in seasoning. The writer, Thomas Fuller, once
said, “Love has its charms, but only soup so well nourishes the young,
stokes the fires of manhood and comforts the old.” The recipes given in
this chapter are guaranteed to please the entire family. Remember—always
serve hot soups very hot and cold soups chilled thoroughly.

Soup and crackers go together like ham and eggs, cream and sugar, salt
and pepper, love and marriage—you can’t have one without the other!
Crackers to complement rich flavorful soups must be very crisp. We
suggest tempting touches be added to crackers and that they be served
crisp and crunchy straight from the oven!


VICHYSSOISE—COLD AND QUICK
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  3 medium potatoes
  ½ cup potato water
  1 8-oz. carton sour cream
  ¾ cup half and half (cream)
  ⅓ cup chopped chives or green onion
  ½ teaspoon salt
  dash Tabasco sauce
  1 can beef consomme

Wash, peel and dice potatoes. Cook until tender. Pour off liquid and
measure; reserve up to ½ cup. Mash potatoes, combine with potato water,
sour cream and cream. Whip until smooth. Add chives, seasoning and
consomme; blend well. Refrigerate at least 4 hours. Serve in soup bowls
or cups, sprinkle with paprika and chopped chives. Serve with TOWN HOUSE
CRACKERS spread with anchovy paste and broiled 5 minutes at 350° F.
Complement with a salad of sliced avocado and cucumber on endive and
Raspberry Parfait Pie (page 30).


PEAS PORRIDGE HOT
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  5 strips of bacon
  ½ cup chopped onion
  2 cans pea soup
  1 can boiling water

Fry bacon until very crisp; remove from fat and saute onion until clear.
Blend fat and onion into soup. Pour in pan and add boiling water slowly,
stirring until smooth. Cook until it bubbles up 2 minutes. Add bacon
crumbled into bits. Serve piping hot with TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS topped
with Blue cheese and broiled 5 minutes at 350° F.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

SOUP’S A MEAL when served with a tasty salad and tempting dessert. A
tossed green salad with tomato wedges will complement PEAS PORRIDGE HOT.
For the ideal dessert, try Graham Cracker Cake with Pine-Cot topping
(page 33).


LOBSTER BISQUE
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  2 cups milk
  2 cups light cream
  ½ can tomato soup
  3 tablespoons butter
  1 cup chopped lobster meat
  4 tablespoons flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon onion salt
  ½ teaspoon celery salt
  ½ teaspoon red pepper

Combine and heat milk, cream and soup. Saute shredded lobster meat in
butter; add flour; cook until absorbed by lobster. Combine lobster with
hot tomato and cream combination; add seasoning. Cook slowly, stirring
constantly until thick. Serve with CLUB CRACKERS generously buttered,
sprinkled with paprika and toasted 8 minutes in a 350° F. oven.
Delicious with avocado slices and grapefruit sections with horse-radish
dressing.

SERVING TRICKS. The French excel not only in their cuisine, but in the
art of serving. They believe every dish should be a masterpiece—rich in
flavor, skillfully seasoned; served with ceremony! They never serve
large portions; when you finish, you’ll wish there were a bit more. That
is the state of “Perfection”! Never detract from the appeal of food by
serving too much.

“Savory Soups” given here are culinary masterpieces—so flavorful—so
skillfully seasoned the most discriminating French chef would say, “Oui!
Oui!” We suggest they be used as the main dish around which to build a
meal, but in small portions are delicious at a dinner. Each of our
“Savory Soups” is so delicious you’ll find yourself serving them often
once you’ve been tempted with a taste!

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                          _Intriguing Entrees_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


LOBSTER THERMIDOR
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  6 frozen African lobster tails
  2 tablespoons margarine
  2 tablespoons flour
  1 egg
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ teaspoon red pepper
  ¼ teaspoon celery salt
  1 tablespoon chopped onion
  ½ teaspoon prepared mustard
  ¼ cup cream
  1 cup vegetable stock
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  3 tablespoons margarine
  ½ cup Parmesan cheese
  ¾ cup CLUB CRACKER crumbs

Cook frozen lobster tails according to directions on package. Remove
meat; save shells to use as garnish. Melt margarine; stir in flour, egg,
seasoning and cream. Then add all of the vegetable stock slowly,
blending and stirring carefully to prevent lumping. (Vegetable stock is
liquid saved from canned vegetables or from cooking fresh vegetables.
Store in jars in refrigerator.) Cook sauce in double boiler until smooth
and thick, stirring constantly. Shred lobster meat and sprinkle with
lemon juice. Combine meat and sauce, mixing well together and heating
until mixture bubbles up for three minutes. Arrange lobster shells,
pulling open, around inside of greased 1½ qt. glass baking dish. Pour in
lobster mixture, letting the pink shells extend over like a rim around
the edge. Saute Parmesan cheese and fine CLUB CRACKER crumbs in
margarine and spread over top of lobster. Place under broiler for about
15 minutes at 300° F. or until top is a golden brown, crisp and crusty.
Garnish with lemon wedges and sprigs of parsley.


CRABMEAT CASSEROLE
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  6 ounces elbow macaroni
  6 tablespoons vegetable oil
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  ½ cup green pepper strips
  2 cups thick white sauce
  3 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  3 dashes Tabasco sauce
  ¾ cup grated cheddar cheese
  1 7-oz. can crabmeat, flaked
  1 cup cooked peas
  ½ cup pimiento strips
  ⅔ cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  3 tablespoons butter

Cook macaroni in salted water (do not overcook). Drain and set aside.
Saute onion and green pepper in vegetable oil until clear; lift out and
add to macaroni. Using remaining oil make white sauce; add lemon juice,
seasoning and cheese. Stir until cheese melts. Combine sauce, crabmeat,
vegetables and macaroni. Pour into greased 2 qt. glass baking dish.
Saute SALTINE CRACKER crumbs in butter and spread over mixture. Bake 24
minutes at 350° F.


BROILED LAMB ROLL
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  1½ pounds ground lamb shoulder
  1 teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ teaspoon marjoram
  1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
  ¾ cup CLUB CRACKER crumbs
  3 tablespoons water
  ½ pound sliced bacon

Mix together lamb, seasoning, CLUB CRACKER crumbs and water. Arrange
strips of bacon lengthwise side by side, slightly overlapping, on a
sheet of waxed paper. Spread lamb mixture evenly all over bacon. Roll as
a jelly roll; wrap in the waxed paper. Refrigerate until firm enough to
slice. Place toothpicks along roll 1 inch apart and cut in 6 equal
slices; broil 12 minutes at 350° F. on one side; turn and broil 7-10
minutes.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


STEAKS CONTINENTAL
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  2 cups CLUB CRACKERS crumbled
  ⅔ cup milk
  3 pounds ground chuck
  ½ cup finely chopped suet
  1 cup chopped green pepper
  1 cup chopped onion
  ½ cup chopped mushrooms
  3 tablespoons tomato paste
  3 tablespoons creamed corn
  1½ teaspoons pepper
  1 tablespoon salt
  2 cloves garlic, minced
  1 egg, beaten

If using fresh mushrooms, wash, slice and cook in salted water until
tender. Place crumbled CLUB CRACKERS in bowl and pour milk over them;
let stand. Blend together meat, suet, green pepper, onion, mushrooms,
tomato paste, corn and seasoning. Add egg to moistened CLUB CRACKERS.
Combine cracker and meat mixtures, mixing well. Divide into six 1½″
thick patties, shaping into the form of a steak. Broil 20 minutes at
350° F. on one side, keeping far enough away from heat to cook through
without burning. Turn and broil on other side until done. To prepare
“well done” steaks, broil farther from the heat and for a longer time on
each side.


SAUSAGE POUCHES
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  1 pound ground sausage meat
  1 cup CLUB CRACKERS (crushed slightly)
  6 tablespoons canned milk
  3 slices pineapple (cut in half)

Blend together sausage meat, CLUB CRACKERS and milk. Divide into 6 equal
parts; roll oval-shaped pouches. With side of hand, press into top of
each oval a slight indentation to form the pouch. Place half slice of
pineapple (rounded side up) lengthwise into indentation and secure with
toothpicks. Place pouches in shallow baking pan. Bake 35 minutes at 325°
F.


LOUISIANA PORK CHOPS
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  6 double pork chops
  2½ cups chopped apple
  ¾ cup chopped pecans
  ½ cup GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon allspice
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  4 tablespoons New Orleans molasses
  ¾ cup flour
  1 cup milk
  1 cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  1 cup boiling water

Combine apples, pecans, GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs, seasoning and molasses;
spoon into pouch in each chop. Dip stuffed chops in milk, then in
SALTINE CRACKER crumbs. Brown chops on both sides in just enough grease
to prevent burning. Place in covered roaster. Add boiling water; bake 1
hour at 300° F.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

ASK YOUR BUTCHER to slit chops along the bone—not on fat side! Cut like
this, the slit is supported by the bone and will close tightly after
filled with stuffing.


OVEN FRIED CHICKEN
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  1 frying chicken, disjointed
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  1 cup flour
  1½ cups milk
  1½ cups TOWN HOUSE CRACKER crumbs

Wash chicken, being sure all pinfeathers are removed. Place flour, salt
and pepper in heavy sack; add 3 or 4 pieces of chicken at a time and
shake. When all are well floured, empty remaining flour and put finely
crumbled (not ground) TOWN HOUSE CRACKER crumbs in sack. Dip pieces of
floured chicken in milk; then shake in TOWN HOUSE CRACKER crumbs, a few
pieces at a time, until well coated. Place chicken (meaty side up) in a
greased shallow baking dish (no fat) and bake 40 minutes in a 350° F.
oven. Turn pieces and bake another 20 minutes or until second side is
browned.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


PARTY PATTY SHELLS
(_Yield: 6 Shells_)

  1 teaspoon oregano
  1 teaspoon poppy seeds
  ½ cup butter (1 stick)
  2 eggs, well beaten
  2½ cups SALTINE CRACKER crumbs

Add oregano (rubbed fine) and poppy seeds to SALTINE CRACKER crumbs,
mixing thoroughly. Cut in butter as for a pie crust (two knives or
pastry blender may be used). Add eggs and continue to blend until well
mixed. Press tightly against bottom and sides of standard glass custard
cups or 5″ foil pie pans. Bake 20 minutes in a 375° F. (preheated) oven.
Fill with creamed meats and or vegetables, chicken a la king, creamed
lobster or crabmeat.


SWISS SOUFFLE PIE
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  1 recipe PARTY PATTY SHELLS
  ½ cup minced onion
  2 tablespoons butter
  6 eggs, separated
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ teaspoon dry mustard
  ½ teaspoon caraway seeds
  1½ teaspoons salt
  2½ cups milk
  1 8-oz. package Swiss cheese

Make one recipe PARTY PATTY SHELLS (page 13). Press mixture on sides and
bottom of 8″ cake pan. Bake this SALTINE CRACKER crust 10 minutes at
325° F. Saute onion in butter. Beat 6 egg yolks and 3 whites. Add
seasoning, milk and sauteed onion. Fold in 3 stiffly beaten egg whites.
Cut cheese very fine. Line SALTINE CRACKER crust with cheese, add egg
and milk mixture. Bake 30 minutes at 325° F. Insert knife to test
custard’s doneness.


HAM LOAF FLAMBEAU
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  ¾ cup brown sugar
  1 teaspoon prepared mustard
  ¼ cup vinegar
  5 peach halves, drained
  5 maraschino cherries
  2 cups ground ham
  1½ pounds ground fresh pork
  2 eggs
  1 cup milk
  1 cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon pepper

Mix sugar, mustard and vinegar in bottom of greased 2 qt. loaf pan.
Arrange peach halves rounded side up over this, put cherry in center of
each. Mix together remaining ingredients, blending well. Press in baking
dish over peach halves. Bake 2 hours at 350° F. Turn out so decorations
are on top.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

TO SET ABLAZE soak cubes of sugar in rum, lemon or brandy extract. Drain
peach halves and wipe with paper towel. Arrange, rounded side down, on
lettuce leaves around the ham loaf. Place a soaked sugar cube in center
of each peach. Light cubes at table for dramatic effect!




                          _Vegetables Tricks_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


SPINACH RING
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  3 cups cooked spinach
  3 eggs, separated
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  1 cup half and half (cream)
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  ½ cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs

Drain spinach and chop very fine. Add beaten egg yolks, onion, SALTINE
CRACKER crumbs, cream and seasoning. Blend well and fold in stiffly
beaten egg whites. Pour into greased ring mold. Place in shallow pan of
hot water; bake 45 minutes at 350° F. or until mold is firm. Unmold on
platter; fill center with Tuna a la King, creamed salmon, or hard-cooked
eggs in curry sauce.


PARSNIPS CREOLE
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  9 small fresh parsnips
  4 tablespoons butter
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  ½ cup chopped green pepper
  4 tablespoons flour
  1 cup tomato puree
  1 cup water
  1 teaspoon salt
  1½ teaspoons sugar
  ½ teaspoon red pepper
  ½ teaspoon chili pepper
  ¼ teaspoon allspice
  ¾ cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  4 tablespoons butter

Peel parsnips; split in quarters lengthwise; remove center core. Cook in
salted water (do not overcook). Saute onion and green pepper in butter
until clear; add flour, puree, water and seasoning; cook until smooth
and slightly thick. Put parsnips in greased 2 qt. glass baking dish and
pour creole sauce over them. Saute SALTINE CRACKER crumbs in butter and
sprinkle over top. Bake 25 minutes at 250° F.


GREEN BEAN ’N EXTRAORDINAIRE
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  2½ cups cooked green beans
  12 tiny white onions, cooked
  ½ cup almonds, split
  2 cups medium white sauce
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon mace
  3 tablespoons butter
  ⅔ cup TOWN HOUSE CRACKER crumbs

Drain beans. Combine beans, onions, almonds, salt and mace with white
sauce. Pour into a 2 qt. glass baking dish. Saute TOWN HOUSE CRACKER
crumbs in butter; arrange over vegetables. Bake 25 minutes at 350° F.


PEAS AND MUSHROOMS SUPREME
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  3 slices bacon
  2½ cups cooked peas
  ¾ cup cooked mushrooms
  ¼ cup pimiento strips
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 cup half and half (cream)
  ½ cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs

Cut bacon in pieces and fry crisp. Lift out of fat; combine with peas,
mushrooms, pimientos, seasoning and cream. Place in 1½ qt. glass baking
dish. Saute SALTINE CRACKER crumbs in fat; spread over peas. Bake 20
minutes at 400° F.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


GINGER GLAZED CARROTS
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  12 medium carrots
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup strained honey
  4 tablespoons butter
  ½ cup GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs
  3 tablespoons butter
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  ¼ cup chopped pecans

Scrape and cook carrots in salted water until tender (do not overcook).
Drain, reserving 2 tablespoons liquid and combine it with honey and
butter. Pour over carrots and cook at low temperature until syrup cooks
down and carrots are well glazed. Turn several times during glazing to
coat evenly and also avoid burning. Saute GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs (to
which ginger and nuts are added) in the 3 tablespoons of butter. Place
carrots in warmed vegetable dish and sprinkle with hot ginger flavored
crumbs. Serve immediately.


EGGPLANT ITALIANO
(_Yield: 6 servings_)

  1 eggplant
  6 tablespoons olive oil
  ½ cup chopped onion
  ½ cup chopped green pepper
  1 pound ground beef
  1 teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon red pepper
  ½ teaspoon oregano
  3 tomatoes, diced
  ½ clove garlic, minced
  1 cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  1 cup Mozzarella cheese, diced

Cut eggplant in half lengthwise; cook in boiling salted water until
tender. Scoop meat from inside of eggplant (leaving only a thin shell);
chop and set aside. Saute green pepper and onion in oil. When clear, add
meat, salt, pepper and oregano; cook slowly until meat browns. Add diced
tomatoes and chopped eggplant meat; cook until hot through. Pack tightly
in the eggplant shells. Toss diced cheese and SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
together; pile on top of eggplant boats. Bake 20 minutes at 375° F.

FOR A CHANGE omit the meat in EGGPLANT ITALIANO. Mix crumbs and cheese
with other ingredients given for stuffing. Fill eggplant shells and bake
as directed.


POTATO PUFFS
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  2½ cups mashed potatoes
  1 egg, beaten fluffy
  4 tablespoons flour
  ¼ cup finely chopped onion
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  small amount of milk
  1 cup TOWN HOUSE CRACKER crumbs

If potatoes are left over, warm slightly to assure easier and more
thorough mixing. Add egg, flour, onion and seasoning; beat well. Add
just enough milk to blend, but do not allow too much moisture as mixture
must be rolled in palm of hands to make 18 tiny balls. When balls are
formed, roll in TOWN HOUSE CRACKER crumbs, being sure they are well
covered. Fry in deep fat until golden brown. Serve immediately, as they
are not at their best unless hot.


NEW ORLEANS SWEETS
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  3 large size sweet potatoes
  4 tablespoons butter
  ¾ cup GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs
  ½ cup chopped pecans
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  4 tablespoons butter
  6 tablespoons New Orleans molasses
  ½ teaspoon ginger
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon
  6 maraschino cherries
  4 tablespoons New Orleans molasses

Boil sweet potatoes in jackets until very tender. While they are
cooking, melt 4 tablespoons butter in skillet; add GRAHAM CRACKER
crumbs, nuts and ginger, turning constantly. When potatoes are done,
peel and mash; add remaining butter, the 6 tablespoons of molasses and
the remaining spices, whip until fluffy. Pile potatoes in a greased 2
qt. glass casserole and top with sauteed GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs; spread
remaining 4 tablespoons of New Orleans molasses over all; and garnish
with 6 maraschino cherries. Bake 20 minutes at 350° F.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


For best _“Cookie ’n’ Cracker”_ recipe results look for all these famous
                          quality products....

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

QUALITY, ABOVE ALL ELSE, is stressed in every step in the production of
these famous cookies and crackers.

The zealously guarded original and unique recipes ... the special care
and attention to selection of ingredients ... the ultra-modern baking
techniques and equipment ... the rigid standards of production and
sanitation control ... and the superb packaging methods, assure you of
receiving the finest, freshest, highest-quality cookie and cracker
products in America.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Buy all of these outstanding _“Cookie ’n’ Cracker”_ products

so you can make all of these wonderful recipes and be the most “talked
about” hostess!




                         _Salads and Dressings_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


SHRIMP IN AVOCADO BOATS
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  3 avocados
  1 cup French dressing
  3 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 pound cooked shrimp
  5 hard-cooked eggs
  ¼ cup pimiento
  ½ cup chopped celery
  ½ cup chopped green pepper
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  ½ cup chopped almonds
  ½ cup thinned mayonnaise
  3 tomatoes, quartered
  6 ripe olives
  12 carrot sticks
  shredded bib lettuce

Cut avocados in half, seed and peel. Marinate in French dressing and
lemon juice. Shred shrimp; add 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped pimiento;
celery; green pepper; onion; almonds and mayonnaise. Mix well and chill.
To serve drain avocado halves; place on lettuce; fill with Shrimp Salad.
Top with remaining French dressing, garnish with olives, carrot sticks,
tomato and egg wedges. Serve with TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS, spread with
anchovy paste and broiled 5 minutes at 350° F.


SLIM-JIM DRESSING
(_Yield: 1 Cup_)

  6 tablespoons vinegar
  ½ cup vegetable oil
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ½ teaspoon minced onion
  1 teaspoon prepared mustard
  ½ teaspoon paprika
  ½ cup tomato soup
  1 tablespoon sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon crushed red pepper

Combine all ingredients and blend well. To further reduce calories try
mineral oil instead of vegetable oil unless doctor has advised against
its use.


CARUSO SALAD
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  2 cups broken iceberg lettuce
  ½ cup broken bib lettuce
  ½ cup shredded red cabbage
  ½ green pepper, slivered
  1 avocado, sliced
  ½ cup diced celery
  ½ cup carrot curls
  ½ cucumber (unpeeled), sliced
  Italian or garlic dressing
  4 tomatoes, quartered
  12 ripe olives
  7 tiny Italian peppers

Place iceberg and bib lettuce, red cabbage, green pepper, avocado,
celery, carrot and cucumber in salad bowl. Add dressing and toss. Pile
into 6 individual salad bowls and garnish each with 8 tomato wedges, 2
olives, 2 peppers. For a luncheon main dish add strips of Mozzarella
cheese, julienne ham, chicken, and hard-cooked egg. Serve with CLUB
CRACKERS, spread with garlic butter and toasted 7 minutes at 350° F.


CUCUMBER AVOCADO MOLD
(_Yield: 12 Servings_)

  1 package lime gelatin
  1¾ cups water
  4 tablespoons lemon juice
  1½ teaspoons salt
  1 cucumber
  2 avocados
  1 can red salmon
  6 lemon slices
  6 radish rose buds
  parsley
  1½ cups Russian dressing

Boil water; add gelatin, stir until dissolved. Add lemon juice and salt;
chill until syrupy. Slice cucumber and avocado. Remove bones and skin
from salmon and break into chunks. Arrange cucumber slices overlapping
around bottom of greased 1½ qt. ring mold; place chunks of salmon over
cucumber; arrange avocado on top; pour cool syrupy gelatin over all.
Refrigerate until firm; unmold on platter. Fill center with dressing;
arrange lemon slices, radish rosebuds and parsley around mold. Serve
with SALTINE CRACKERS topped with cheese, sprinkled with paprika and
broiled 5 minutes at 350° F.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


CHICKEN SALAD IN ORANGE CUPS
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  3 large oranges
  2 cups shredded chicken
  ½ cup chopped celery
  2 tablespoons minced onion
  ¼ cup slivered ripe olives
  ½ cup chopped pecans
  1 large bunch watercress
  ⅓ cup mayonnaise
  2 teaspoons sugar
  1 teaspoons salt
  1 teaspoon paprika
  ⅓ cup whipped cream
  6 ripe olives
  1 large bunch watercress

Wash oranges and cut in half; scoop out pulp, keep as whole as possible;
and reserve juice. Cut pulp into cubes; combine with orange juice,
chicken, celery, olives, onion and nuts. Blend together mayonnaise,
seasoning and whipped cream. Combine chicken mixture and ¾ dressing.
Pile salad into orange shells. Put spoonful of remaining dressing on top
of each and garnish with a ripe olive. Place on a bed of watercress.
Serve with an assortment of crackers: CLUB CRACKERS, TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS
and SALTINE CRACKERS, which have each been spread with different cheeses
and toasted. To toast, place on cookie sheet and bake 7 minutes at 350°
F.


SPICED CRANBERRY HEARTS
(_Yield: 8 Servings_)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1½ cups hot water
  ¾ cup sugar
  4 cloves
  1 stick cinnamon
  3 lemon slices
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  ½ pound cranberries
  2 tablespoons plain gelatin
  ½ cup cold water

Heat water, sugar, spices, lemon slices, and salt until sugar dissolves;
boil 5 minutes. Add cranberries and cook until they boil up 3 minutes.
Remove lemon slices and cinnamon stick. Let gelatin stand in cold water
5 minutes; add to hot cranberries, mixing well. Let cool; pour into
greased heart-shaped individual molds. Unmold on lettuce leaf and top
with thinned mayonnaise. Serve with hot, toasted CLUB CRACKERS piled
high with Chicken Salad. To toast crackers place on a cookie sheet and
bake 7 minutes at 350° F.


FRUIT PLATTER
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  6 pineapple sticks
  6 pear halves
  6 peach halves, sliced
  18 slices of oranges
  18 grapefruit sections
  12 plum halves
  4 bananas
  1 cup melon balls
  1 pint strawberries
  6 lettuce leaves
  6 bunches parsley
  1 bunch white grapes

Use as much fresh fruit as possible. To peel and section oranges and
grapefruit easily, cover with boiling water; let stand 10 minutes; peel,
section and refrigerate. To prepare bananas, peel, cut in 3 equal pieces
crosswise; dip in mayonnaise; roll in pink coconut. Prepare and chill
melon balls. Place lettuce leaves on chop plate. Arrange fruit around
outer edge of platter, beginning with pineapple sticks. On one side
place sliced peaches; on other, melon balls. Next coconut-bananas; then
pear halves (tint with food coloring using pastry brush). Next arrange
plum halves, skin side up and dipped in powdered sugar. Then orange
slices, overlapping in artistic rows; next grapefruit sections; finally
a mound of strawberries with stems. Now circle is complete. In center,
place bowl filled with Fruit Salad Dressing (see below). Garnish with
tiny bunches of sugar-coated grapes and sprigs of parsley. Serve with
TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS spread with Blue cheese and broiled 5 minutes at
350° F. A luncheon party dish with eye and appetite appeal.


FRUIT SALAD DRESSING
(_Yield: 1½ Cups_)

  1 cup sour cream
  ¼ cup honey
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  3 tablespoons orange juice
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  2 teaspoons grated orange peel

Blend all ingredients together and refrigerate several hours before
serving. Standing improves flavor. Delicious for wide variety of fruit
salads.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                            _Pies A Plenty_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


ALADDIN’S APPLE PIE
(_Yield: 9″ Pie_)

  1 unbaked pie shell and top pastry
  24 TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS
  2 cups water
  1½ cups sugar
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  2 teaspoons cream of tartar
  1½ teaspoons nutmeg
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  2 tablespoons butter

Combine sugar, water and cream of tartar; bring to a boil. Add whole
crackers, lemon juice and rind. Cook slowly for 10 minutes; do not stir.
Pour into unbaked 9″ pie shell; sprinkle with the nutmeg and cinnamon
and dot with butter (cut into bits). Cut design in unbaked top crust (to
allow steam to escape); place over filling; flute edges, sealing
together. Bake 40 minutes in a 400° F. (preheated) oven. Be sure crust
is a golden brown. Cool and serve. This is a “make believe” apple pie
and requires _no_ apples to prepare it. But, like a regular apple pie,
it is delicious with a wedge of cheese or ice cream.


NEVER-FAIL PIE CRUST
(_Yield: Three 9″ Crusts_)

  3 cups sifted flour
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ½ cup milk
  1 cup shortening

Sift together flour and salt. Scald milk and add shortening, whipping
until creamy. Work in dry ingredients. Chill in refrigerator before
rolling out on floured board. Keeps well for days, so may be made up in
advance.

PIE AND COOKIE DOUGH, rolled on waxed paper, is easily and safely
transferred from table to pan.


BLACK BOTTOM MINT PIE
(_Yield: 9″ Pie_)

  1 9″ COCOANUT CHOCOLATE CRUST
  1 cup milk
  6 ounces semi-sweet chocolate
  1 egg, separated
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  1 package vanilla pudding
  1 cup heavy cream
  2 tablespoons sugar
  green food coloring
  oil of mint flavoring
  ¼ cup COCOANUT CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIE crumbs

Put milk and chocolate in top of double boiler and heat until chocolate
is melted. Combine egg yolk and cornstarch; gradually add to hot milk
and chocolate. Stirring vigorously, continue to cook until thickened,
about 20 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. Cook vanilla pudding
according to directions on the package. Set aside to cool. Spread
chocolate mixture over bottom of the COCOANUT CHOCOLATE CRUST. When
pudding is cool, fold in beaten egg white and pour over chocolate
mixture. Whip cream until stiff; add 5 drops oil of mint flavoring and
enough coloring to turn cream into a pleasing shade of green. Gradually
fold in sugar. Pile high on the pie and sprinkle top with COCOANUT
CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIE crumbs. Refrigerate 2 to 4 hours before serving.


COCOANUT CHOCOLATE CRUST
(_Yield: 9″ Pie Crust_)

  2 cups COCOANUT CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIE crumbs
  5 tablespoons butter or margarine

Prepare 2 cups fine crumbs from COCOANUT CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES. Have
butter or margarine room temperature, and using a fork, mix with cookie
crumbs until crumbly. Use back of spoon to press this mixture firmly to
the sides and bottom of a 9″ pie plate. Be sure to make a shallow rim at
top of crust. Bake 5 minutes at 375° F. Cool before filling.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

COOKIE ’N’ CRACKER CRUSTS in this chapter are ideal for cream fillings.
Try lemon meringue in GINGER WALNUT CRUST and chocolate chiffon in
COCOANUT CHOCOLATE.


PECAN PIE
(_Yield: 9″ Pie_)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 9″ CARAMEL CRACKER CRUST
  ½ cup brown sugar
  ½ cup cornstarch
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  3 tablespoons butter
  2 eggs
  1½ cups dark corn syrup
  ⅔ cup water
  1 cup pecans
  1 cup whipping cream

Blend sugar, cornstarch, salt, butter, eggs and syrup; add water, cook,
stirring constantly until thick. Beat while cooking 5 minutes longer;
add nuts; let boil up once. Cool. Pour into CARAMEL CRACKER CRUST;
refrigerate 4 to 6 hours. Decorate with whipped cream and pecan halves.


CARAMEL CRACKER CRUST
(_Yield: 9″ Pie Crust_)

  1½ cups SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  ½ cup dark brown sugar
  ½ cup ground pecans
  ½ cup butter or margarine

Combine SALTINE CRACKER CRUMBS, sugar and nuts. Add soft butter; using
fork, blend until crumbly. Press against sides and bottom of 9″ pie
plate; make shallow rim at top of crust. Bake 5 minutes at 375° F.


RASPBERRY PARFAIT PIE
(_Yield: 9″ Pie_)

  1 9″ GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST
  1 package frozen red or black raspberries
  1¼ cups liquid
  1 pint vanilla ice cream
  ½ pint (1 cup) whipping cream
  1 package red or black raspberry gelatin

Let berries thaw; drain juice into measuring cup. Add water to make 1¼
cups; heat to boiling. Pour over gelatin; stir until dissolved. Add ice
cream; whip until melted. Chill until thick, not set (about 20 minutes).
Then, fold in berries reserving some for garnish. Pour into GRAHAM
CRACKER CRUST; refrigerate until firm. Decorate with whipped cream and
berries. Return to refrigerator.


GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST
(_Yield: 9″ Pie Crust_)

  1¾ cups GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs
  ¼ cup granulated sugar
  5 tablespoons margarine or butter

Combine GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs and sugar. Using fork, work in soft
butter; blend until crumbly. Press firmly to sides and bottom of 9″ pie
plate; make shallow rim at top of crust. Bake 7 minutes at 375° F.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE
(_Yield: 9″ Pie_)

  1 9″ GINGER WALNUT CRUST
  ¾ cup cooked pumpkin
  2 eggs, separated
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ⅓ cup milk
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  ¼ teaspoon ginger
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup sugar
  1½ tablespoons gelatin
  5 tablespoons cool water
  1 cup cream, whipped

Combine pumpkin, egg yolks, ⅓ cup sugar, milk and spices. Cook until
thick, stirring constantly. Set aside to cool. Soften gelatin in cool
water; add to pumpkin custard. Beat egg whites and salt until very
stiff; add remaining sugar gradually, whipping gently. Pour pumpkin
custard into stiffly beaten egg whites, folding thoroughly but gently.
Then pour into GINGER WALNUT CRUST; refrigerate 3 to 6 hours. Top with
whipped cream and return to refrigerator until ready to serve.


GINGER WALNUT CRUST
(_Yield: 9″ Pie Crust_)

  ⅓ cup ground black walnuts
  1 tablespoon grated lemon rind
  1⅓ cups GINGER SNAP crumbs
  ¼ cup granulated sugar
  5 tablespoons soft butter or margarine

Prepare 1⅓ cups very fine crumbs from GINGER SNAP COOKIES. Add ground
nuts, lemon rind and sugar, mixing well together. Using a fork, work in
softened margarine or butter until mixture is crumbly. With back of
spoon, press this firmly to sides and bottom of 9″ pie plate. Be sure to
make a shallow rim at top of crust. Bake 5 minutes at 375° F. Cool
before filling.

FOR FLUFFIER MERINGUES have egg whites at room temperature before
whipping them. To prevent loss of volume add sugar a little at a time,
whipping slowly with each addition. Avoid meringue pulling to center by
being sure it touches crust all around. This gives egg whites something
to hold onto while browning.




                            _Gourmet Cakes_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


REFRIGERATOR CHEESE CAKE
(_Yield: 9″ Cake_)

  1 recipe CINNAMON CRISP CRUST
  2 tablespoons plain gelatin
  ½ cup cold water
  2 eggs, separated
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup milk
  24 ounces cottage cheese
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Soak gelatin in water. Blend beaten egg yolks, salt, sugar and milk;
cook until thick. Add gelatin; mix well and cool. Drain cottage cheese,
then press through sieve and add lemon juice, rind and vanilla. Fold
cheese and stiffly beaten egg whites unto gelatin mixture. Pour into
CINNAMON CRISP CRUST; sprinkle ¾ cup CINNAMON CRISP crumbs over top.
Refrigerate 4 to 6 hours.


CINNAMON CRISP CRUST
(_Yield: 9″ Spring-form Mold_)

  3 cups CINNAMON CRISP crumbs
  ½ cup sugar
  ¾ cup butter or margarine

Combine CINNAMON CRISP crumbs and sugar; using fork, blend in butter.
Reserve ¾ cup for top of cake. Press remainder on bottom, sides and
around cone of spring-form mold. Can be used for baked or unbaked cheese
cake, or pie crusts.


GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE
(_Yield: 9″ Square_)

  2 cups GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs
  2 tablespoons flour
  2 teaspoons baking powder
  ½ cup butter or margarine
  1 cup sugar
  3 eggs, separated
  1 cup chopped nuts
  1 cup milk

Using rolling pin, crush GRAHAM CRACKERS between two sheets of waxed
paper. Roll until very fine, then run through sieve. Sift together
cracker crumbs, flour and baking powder. Cream butter or margarine and
sugar; add egg yolks one at a time, mixing well; then add chopped nuts
(English walnuts or black walnuts). To creamed sugar and egg mixture add
sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Blend well; then fold in
egg whites, stiffly beaten. Pour into 9″ square cake pan and bake 40
minutes at 350° F. For best results in _high altitude_ areas, subtract 3
tablespoons of sugar from the amount given in this recipe. Serve GRAHAM
CRACKER CAKE hot or cold with PINE-COT TOPPING.


PINE-COT TOPPING
(_Yield: 8 Servings_)

  1 cup mashed apricots
  1 cup crushed pineapple
  1 cup sugar
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup water
  1 cup whipping cream

Combine apricots, pineapple, sugar, salt and water; cook slowly,
stirring frequently, until thickened like preserves. Set aside to
partially cool. Whip cream until it stands in peaks, and just before
serving, fold it into cooled fruit sauce. Serve generous amount on
squares of GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE.

FOR FLAT, EVENLY RAISED LAYERS of cake do not grease sides of pan.
Neither should the center cones of round cake pans be greased. For cup
cakes, where peaks are desired, sides should be well greased.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


GINGER SPICE CAKE
(_Yield: 9″ Square_)

  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  2 eggs
  1½ cups sifted flour
  1 teaspoon baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  1 teaspoon nutmeg
  1 cup GINGER SNAP crumbs
  1 cup apple sauce (canned, sweetened)
  ½ cup New Orleans molasses
  ½ cup raisins or nuts

Cream together shortening and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, and blend
well. Sift flour, baking powder, salt, and spices. Prepare one cup fine
crumbs from GINGER SNAP COOKIES. Add to sifted dry ingredients. Combine
molasses and apple sauce and add to sugar and egg mixture. Gradually
fold in dry ingredients, stirring until well blended. Add broken nut
meats or raisins. Pour into a well greased 9″ square cake pan and bake
for 55 minutes at 350° F. For best results in _high altitude_ areas,
subtract 1½ tablespoons from the amount of sugar and from the amount of
molasses given in this recipe. Serve GINGER SPICE CAKE either hot or
cold with APPLE FROSTIE.


APPLE FROSTIE
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  1 tart apple
  1 cup white sugar
  1 egg white
  ½ lemon (juice)
  ¼ teaspoon vanilla

Grate apple fine; place in large mixing bowl; and add remaining
ingredients. Beat at high speed until light and fluffy. Will not hold up
more than 3 or 4 hours so make just before the meal at which it is to be
served. Serve generous amount on squares of GINGER SPICE CAKE.

FOR DELICIOUS JAM CAKE try above recipe, substitute jam for apple sauce.
Be sure, however, to omit molasses and add 6 tablespoons of lemon juice.
Follow recipe for mixing and baking directions.


CHOCOLATE CHRISTMAS CAKE
(_Unbaked: Yield 2½ Pounds_)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  3½ cups VANILLA WAFER crumbs
  1 cup powdered sugar
  ⅛ cup cocoa
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup white corn syrup
  ⅓ cup sherry or fruit juice
  ¼ cup raisins
  ¼ cup dates
  ¼ cup figs
  ¼ cup dried apricots
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  1 cup mixed candied fruits

Combine VANILLA WAFER crumbs, sugar, cocoa, salt, syrup and juice. Cut
dates, figs and apricots into bits; rinse in boiling water. Drain; add
raisins, nuts and candied fruit (cut into bits). Combine fruits and nuts
with crumb mixture. Pack in well greased 1 qt. ring mold. Cover with
foil; refrigerate at least 24 hours. Remove from mold; frost with
DECORATOR’S ICING tinted green and mint flavored. Decorate with candied
cherries and pecan halves. Fill center with sprigs of berry laden holly.


DECORATOR’S ICING
(_Yield: About 1 Cup_)

  1 egg white
  dash of salt
  1 cup confectioner’s sugar
  flavoring and coloring

Beat egg white and salt; beat, add sugar little at a time. Whip until
smooth and thin enough to pour. Color and flavor to taste.




                          _Delicious Desserts_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


CINNAMON CRISP APPLE PUDDING
(_Yield: 8 Servings_)

  4 apples
  ½ cup water
  1 tablespoon vinegar
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  1½ cups CINNAMON CRISP crumbs
  4 tablespoons butter
  ½ cup granulated sugar
  ½ cup chopped pecans

Peel, core and slice apples. Arrange in bottom of an 8″ square cake pan.
Add vinegar to water and pour over apples; sprinkle with nutmeg. Crush
CINNAMON CRISP by rolling between pieces of waxed paper or running
through food chopper. Blend butter and sugar into crumbs; add chopped
pecans, mixing well; spread evenly over apples. Bake 45 minutes at 350°
F. Serve hot or cold with cream or whipped cream.


DUTCH APPLE MARLOW
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  16 marshmallows
  1 cup apple sauce
  ⅓ cup water
  ⅛ teaspoon nutmeg
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  1 cup whipped cream
  ⅔ Cup CINNAMON CRISP crumbs

In top of double boiler, heat marshmallows, apple sauce and water. Stir
frequently and cook until smooth. Add nutmeg and lemon rind; chill until
slightly thickened. Whip cream and fold into chilled apple sauce
mixture. Line a 1 qt. refrigerator tray with ⅓ cup CINNAMON CRISP
crumbs. Pour in cream and apple sauce filling. Sprinkle top with
remaining ⅓ cup CINNAMON CRISP crumbs. Freeze until firm. Cut in squares
to serve or pile by spoonfuls in sherbet glasses.


MERINGUE MAGIC
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

  1 cup SALTINE CRACKER crumbs
  1 cup sugar
  1 teaspoon baking powder
  1 teaspoon vinegar
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ cup pecans
  3 egg whites

Roll SALTINE CRACKERS until crumbs are very fine. Add sugar, baking
powder, vinegar, vanilla and nuts. Beat egg whites until stiff; fold
into crumb mixture. Spread in 9″ square pan. Bake 20 minutes at 350° F.
Cool. Cut in squares and top with a scoop of chocolate ice cream and
cover with PINEAPPLE MINT SAUCE.


PINEAPPLE MINT SAUCE
(_Yield: 1½ Cups_)

  ¾ cup sugar
  ¼ cup cornstarch
  1 cup crushed pineapple
  1½ cups pineapple juice
  green coloring
  oil of mint

Combine sugar and cornstarch; stir into crushed pineapple; add juice,
blending well. Cook until thickened, stirring to assure smoothness. Add
coloring and flavoring to taste. Serve over ice cream filled MERINGUE
MAGIC. Delicious on chocolate or vanilla ice cream; pineapple or lemon
sherbet; and, chocolate cake or pudding.

OTHER FILLINGS for meringue crust include ice cream with fresh berries
or sliced peaches. Fruit salad, whipped cream, spread over MERINGUE
MAGIC and frozen is a party dessert. Hot fudge and butterscotch are good
over ice cream filled meringue squares.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


BANANA COCOANUT CUSTARD
(_Yield: 6 Servings_)

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ tablespoon cornstarch
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  2 eggs, separated
  1 cup milk, scalded
  48 VANILLA WAFERS (6 ounces)
  1 banana, sliced
  ⅔ cup shredded cocoanut

Mix together sugar, cornstarch, salt and beaten egg yolks. Slowly add
scalded milk, blending well. Cook in double boiler until custard
thickens. Line sides and bottom of oblong 1½ qt. glass baking dish with
VANILLA WAFERS. Pour ⅓ custard over wafers; slice ½ banana over and
sprinkle ⅓ cup cocoanut on top. Repeat, then pour remaining third of
custard over top. Using egg whites, 2 tablespoons sugar and vanilla,
make a meringue. Pile this meringue in peaks on custard, being sure
every inch is covered. Bake 20 minutes at 300° F. Delicious hot or cold.

VANILLA WAFERS are so versatile because their delicate flavor blends so
well with others. Chocolate, vanilla, lemon or butterscotch pudding can
be turned into a special dessert by using alternate layers of VANILLA
WAFERS and pudding with a topping of whipped cream sprinkled with ground
nuts and garnished with maraschino cherries.


CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW PUDDING
(_Yield: 12 Servings_)

  1¼ cups GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs
  1 tablespoon flour
  ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ cup cocoa
  ½ cup butter or margarine
  24 marshmallows
  1 6-oz. package chocolate bits
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 cup milk
  1 cup whipping cream

Prepare GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs by rolling between sheets of wax paper,
putting through a food chopper, a Foley mill or crumbling in an electric
blender. Add flour, sugar and cocoa to the prepared crumbs and mix well.
Using fork, blend in butter. Press with back of spoon in bottom of 9″ x
13″ x 2″ glass baking dish. Cut marshmallows in bits; melt with
chocolate bits in milk, add salt; beat smooth and set aside to cool.
Whip stiff; fold into cooled marshmallow mixture and spread over crumbs.
Place in refrigerator for several hours. Cut in squares.


PECAN PUFFS
(_Yield: About 3 Dozen_)

  ½ cup PECAN SANDIE crumbs
  2 egg whites
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 cup sugar
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Prepare crumbs from PECAN SANDIES. Beat egg whites with salt and lemon
juice until soft peaks form. Slowly beat in sugar, vanilla and fine
PECAN SANDIE crumbs. Drop by teaspoonfuls on greased baking sheets. Bake
35 minutes in 275° F. (pre-heated) oven.

PECAN SANDIES are rich and delicious, the perfect companion for tea or
coffee—gives an afternoon snack a party touch. Try frosting them with
tinted 7-Minute icing for your next club tea.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                              _Fun Foods_


SPICE COOKIES
(_Yield: 2 Dozen 2″ Squares_)

  ⅔ cup CINNAMON CRISP crumbs
  1½ cups brown sugar (firmly packed)
  ½ cup butter, melted
  1 cup sifted flour
  2 teaspoons baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 eggs
  1½ teaspoons vanilla

Prepare fine crumbs from CINNAMON CRISP. Heat sugar and butter, stirring
constantly. When sugar is completely dissolved and syrup bubbles up set
aside to cool. Sift dry ingredients and combine with CINNAMON CRISP
crumbs. Beat eggs and add with the vanilla to sugar syrup. Blend crumb
mixture and syrup together. Pour into a greased 9″ x 13″ x 2″ glass
baking dish. Bake 30 minutes at 350° F. or until a toothpick or cake
tester comes out clean. Cut in 2″ squares while still warm.


UNBAKED FUDGIES
(_Yield: 50 Cookies_)

  2 cups granulated sugar
  2 squares bitter chocolate
  1 cup milk
  2 tablespoons butter
  24 marshmallows
  ½ cup walnut halves
  3 cups GRAHAM CRACKER crumbs

Combine sugar, chocolate, milk and butter; bring to boil, stirring
constantly. When sugar is dissolved, continue cooking slowly for 5
minutes. Cool to lukewarm. Prepare crumbs from GRAHAM CRACKERS. Cut
marshmallows in bits; combine with nuts and add to crumbs. Pour warm
syrup over all and blend well together. Drop by teaspoonfuls on waxed
paper. Top each with walnut half and set aside for at least 2 hours
before serving. Do not refrigerate.

TOP GRAHAM CRACKERS with a square of plain chocolate candy and a
marshmallow. Broil 5 minutes at 350° F. for a treat that’s sure to make
the small fry squeal for more.




                       _The Art of Entertaining_


THE ART OF ENTERTAINING is simple to achieve. Planning is the secret!
Never select a menu too difficult to master. Read recipes and have every
ingredient on hand before starting to cook. Allow ample time for food
preparation; also, to dress without rushing.

Serve juices or cocktails with spreads and plenty of CRACKERS in the
living room to keep guests happy and YOU well-poised while adding final
touches to the meal! These simple rules help you master the Art of
Entertaining!

Keep a stock of canned and frozen foods, and a wide selection of COOKIES
’N’ CRACKERS. Then happen-in guests are always welcome. Include these
COOKIES ’N’ CRACKERS on your next shopping list!

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Butter Cookies
  Pecan Sandies
  Chocolate Fudge Sandwich
  Jan Hagel
  Town House Crackers
  Club Crackers
  Saltines
  Graham Crackers
  Cocoanut Chocolate Drop Cookies
  Ginger Snaps
  Vanilla Wafers
  Cinnamon Crisp

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

                        BOWMAN BISCUIT COMPANY_®
               DIVISION UNITED BISCUIT COMPANY OF AMERICA
                           Denver 17 Colorado

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COOKIE 'N' CRACKER COOKIN' ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
